>> Maximiliano Firtman: The last section,
it's about regular expressions, and
again I'm not sure how
many of you are experts or
even comfortable with regular expression,
not even experts.
But let's cover briefly the additions that
have been in this field, that it needs
a whole workshop on regular expressions
full day of regular expressions.
It's interesting when you learn regular
expressions when you understand
what's going on behind the scenes.
So I remember seeing that at university,
so like spending several
weeks learning machine states and
what's going on behind scenes.
To understand why are so
cryptic okay, but anyway,
we have that,
let's start let's go one by one.
So we have first one known as the dotAll flag
that will match any character including
line breaks, typically line breaks
we're not line breaks or tabs.
Special characters were not being
taken by the regular expression,
when you use the flag,
actually it's being used after
the forward slash when you create
the regular expression, typically,
maybe you have been playing with g,
the global one.
That's the most common one,
but now we have the s, that,
it just check whatever you have inside,
okay?
So if I run this, it says true because,
it works with this character,
new line character.
We have the sticky flag, that actually
ensures that the match must start
the current position in the target string,
it's actually what's going on, okay?
So because if you run this,
you don't really understand
what's going on initially.
The idea with this is that
when you execute a regular
expression on the same string many times,
okay,
in this case, it's looking for foo, okay?
Exactly for foo, and it has the sticky
flag, so the idea is that, for
example, if I remove a character here,
the second one disappears.
So I have two executions, it's exactly
the same, you can see it's exactly
the same execution, and
why did the other one here disappear?
Let's go back to the other one like that,
they disappear when I'm
changing this, it disappears.
Why?
Because it has some benefit pointer, so
when I execute this for the first time
because of the sticky flag, here, you're
gonna see a sticky flag, the y.
It has like a pointer, so
it's It actually found the first foo,
and it stopped there,
now it has a pointer there.
When you execute again, it will check for
foo after that pointer, and
now there is no foo after that point.
Okay, make sense?
It's just that.
Look behind assertions are
even more complicated to actually
understand if you don't have
experience with regular expression.
I will try to do my best to give you
a quick idea of what's going on,
so in this case, you can do positive
look behind or negative look behind.
By the way,
ECMAScript always supported, or
it has supported look ahead for
a while, okay?
This is look behind, so what's the idea?
So, in this case, you can look behind foo,
so I'm trying to get foo as a prefix,
okay?
So I'm saying, hey, look behind foo,
so this is a syntax,
actually in the regular expression,
so this is not a flag,
it's part of the regular
expression pattern.
So I'm saying, I wanna look behind foo,
so actually the result is 123.
A negative look behind is when
you wanna look with this, okay,
it's looking for bar, and
of course, there is no bar here.
So it's also giving me 123, again, by
the way, it's also matching digits here.
So the digits,
that should have a foo before, and
the other one is a digit that
shouldn't have bar before.
Something like that,
that's what you are matching.
Named capture groups is something
that you will get probably better
because it's something that we
have already tested before.
Remember the regular expression
that we use with match all that
was extracting the year,
was extracting the month and the day.
I'm not sure if you remember that at
that point, the year was actually sub1,
it wasn't array of data, but
was receiving the whole date.
Then we're assuming the year,
then the month, then the day, but
we received that in an array.
And we need to go and
grab the one we need by the index,
well now with named groups that is
actually something that appeared in 2018.
You can name the groups and
this is the name, so in this case,
you use angle brackets within
the already cryptic regular expression
in angle brackets within the parenthesis,
this is the group.
We define a name, year, month,
and day, so in this case,
we are saying this is a group
that the name is the year,
and it's looking for four numeric digits.
The month, then we have a hyphen,
then it should have the month two digits,
another hyphen, and
the day with two digits.
When we execute this with any value here,
you receive named groups.
With "." syntax, you can go and
grab the year, the month, and
the day, which is much better
than just grabbing the groups by
their index, Their indices,
actually, make sense?
So then you receive, and of course,
you pick the order, right?
So you can change the order because
it's name-based, not position-based.
Does it make sense?
And then we have also
the Unicode property,
that's actually the another flag.
/u, which lets you match
based on the properties
of the Unicode set of characters.
Some for example, I can check if
the string has Greek characters,
so if I test this,
Alpha is Greek, it's true.
If I use, I don't know, a, Latin a,
is false, that's not Greek, okay?
Makes sense?
And also another thing you can check,
you can check if it's emoji,
if it includes emojis, emoji flags, or
whatever or punctuation characters.
So, for example, if I check on this,
it gives me true that it has punctuation
characters, I can also extract them.
But if I remove all these marks,
so if I run this, it's still true.
But if I remove exclamation mark,
I still have to,
comma sorry, now it's false just by saying
this capital P with the U flag, okay?
So that's new from ES6 there are not so
many use cases but
typically for validation purposes,
it will probably be useful, okay?
So those are the new enhancements
around regular expressions.
>> Student: Just in the chat, just
mentioned that regex101.com is a great
site for understanding them or
just playing around.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah,
there are a lot of resources around
regular expression,
regular expression is actually its
own language that is not
related to JavaScript.
Implementations might be different
on different languages, but
the main idea of a regular expression,
the mainstream is typically something
that is a standard that works
across many, many, many languages.